README.md, before:

# forza_motorsport
Various utilities to work with data from the Forza Motorsport game's data stream.

## fdp.py
A Python class containing all properties available in the data packets sent by the game's "data out" stream.

## data2tsv.py
A script that will listen on a given port on the local machine and write any incoming packets to a given TSV file whenever the game is in a "race" state. The script runs until it is interrupted (e.g. by the Ctrl-C keyboard combination).

### TSV output example

Say that we want to store our data in a file called `forza_data.tsv`. We can start the Python script as follows, where it will listen on port 1123 and write to the file we want:

```
python data2tsv.py 1123 forza_data.tsv
```

Next, you will have to go into the HUD options in the game and at the bottom set "data out" to "ON", the "data out IP address" to the IP address of your machine (how to find that depends on your system, refer to your user manual), and the "data out IP port" to 1123.

Once you're in a race the script will start writing data to the TSV. To stop the script, hit Ctrl-C.

Commit message:

Add CSV support and rename file output script.
We add support for Excel-style CSV files by using Python's csv library.
Switching the output is controlled with a new command line parameter.
Because the script no longer supports just TSVs, the script was renamed
to data2file.py.

The default behaviour is now to overwrite the file by default, so there
is a command line parameter added for appending to an existing file.

The ForzaDataPacket class is changed to contain two class variables
and a class method, as the format specifier and list of property names
are both constant across all objects.

README.md, after:

# forza_motorsport
Various utilities to work with data from the Forza Motorsport game's data stream.

## fdp.py
A Python class containing all properties available in the data packets sent by the game's "data out" stream.

## data2file.py
A script that will listen on a given port on the local machine and write any incoming packets to a given output file whenever the game is in a "race" state. The script runs until it is interrupted (e.g. by the Ctrl-C keyboard combination).

### TSV output example

Say that we want to store our data in a file called `forza_data.tsv`. We can start the Python script as follows, where it will listen on port 1123 and write to the file we want:

```
python data2file.py 1123 forza_data.tsv
```

Next, you will have to go into the HUD options in the game and at the bottom set "data out" to "ON", the "data out IP address" to the IP address of your machine (how to find that depends on your system, refer to your user manual), and the "data out IP port" to 1123.

Once you're in a race the script will start writing data to the TSV. To stop the script, hit Ctrl-C.

### File formats supported

The script supports writing out tab-separated or comma-separated values. Supply the `-f` or `--format` parameter to the script to control the format. It writes out tab-separated values by default.

Say you want to write out a comma-separated file to import into Excel, add the format parameter:

```
python data2file.py -f csv 1123 forza_data.csv
```

### Overwrite or append to the output file

By default the script will overwrite an existing file, and start the file by writing out a row with the names of all the data properties found in the data packets transmitted by the game. If you instead want to append data to an existing file, supply the `-a` parameter:

```
python data2file.py -a 1123 forza_data.tsv
```

When appending, the header row is not written out as it is expected to already be present in the file.
